# Sign-Language-Conversion-for-Tiny-Tots
Final Year Project

Communication means to share thoughts, messages, knowledge or any information. Ordinary people communicate their thoughts through speech to others, whereas the hearing impaired community the means of communication is the use of sign language.

Computer recognition of sign language is an important research problem for enabling communication with hearing impaired people. This project introduces an efficient and fast algorithm for identification of the number of fingers opened in a gesture representing an alphabet of the Sign Language. The system does not require the hand to be perfectly aligned to the camera. The project uses image processing system to identify, especially English alphabetic sign language used by the deaf people to communicate. The basic objective of this project is to develop a computer based intelligent system that will enable dumb people significantly to communicate with all other people using their natural hand gestures. The idea consisted of designing and building up an intelligent system using image processing, machine learning and artificial intelligence concepts to take visual inputs of sign language’s hand gestures and generate easily recognizable form of outputs. Hence the objective of this project is to develop an intelligent system which can act as a translator between the sign language and the spoken language dynamically and can make the communication between people with hearing impairment and normal people both effective and efficient. This system will be the one of efficient tool for the hearing impaired children. These children can be taught the basic English grammar concept through the designed module.
